# Personal Learning Goals 
### Tijme Rijkers
## Background & introduction

My background lays within international land and water management, this is also the bachelor that I studied which included courses on both the social and technical side. Currently I am following the specialisation adaptive water management of the master International Land and water management and follow the master of Geo information science, I already have followed some courses on GIS and also have some experience in working with coding languages such as RStudio and Python since I followed some courses in which I had to use them. In these courses I learned how to work with data as input for a project but not on how to work with these specific data sets. Despite working with several coding languages I am still struggling a bit especially with Python since for me several aspects of this language remain unclear/vague to me and have not that much experience with it. Furthermore, I have not specifically followed courses related to data preprocessing and analysing which I consider important and valuable to learn. I have some experience especially within GIS and R in visualising data using maps and webapps, however not in analysing big data sets and therefore want learns skills in ways to analyse these data. Additionally, the ethical and societal aspects that is related to big data studies/research is something which interests me and never specifically thought of whilst working with data sets during previous projects/courses. Those aspects contributed to why I wanted to follow this course. My expectation therefore is also that I gain more knowledge about what data science exactly entails within environmental sciences and how to work with these databases in terms of cleaning data sets and analysing the data within them.

## Learning goal 1

I want to learn more about working in the python environment and especially within our group project regarding acquiring data from different social media channels I want to be able to scrape data from those platforms and want to know which python libraries or additional programs to use to achieve this. I have never retrieved data from social media platforms and am in general not familiar with social media as a database at all also web/social media scrapers are a new term for me since I have never worked with it. I want to achieve this by actively searching and providing useful libraries/programs for scraping in python to generate sample datasets containing comments from social media platforms that are useful for our project.

## Learning goal 2

Furthermore which I am less familiar with is analysing data, Here I want to learn more on for example how to collect/view patterns within data sets, Within our group project this relates to analyse the data (comments and posts from social media) on sentiment towards a certain discussion, in our case the Dutch nitrogen crises, this involves understanding sentiment analyses concepts. I do not know the concept of sentiment and am not familiar with how to analyse our comments/data based on sentiment but at the end of the course ideally I want to know the concept of sentiment and implement sentiment analysis techniques on a data set. To achieve this I will successfully apply sentiment analysis on our dataset of comments and write a part on sentiment as a concept of its own.

## Learning goal 3

Additionally as my last learning goal I want to learn more about the ethics of data research I have never learned about the social and ethical side related to the use of (big) data, I do know about ethical guidelines related to research in general especially in the social science domain however the data science domain remains relatively new for me, I want to improve my knowledge on ethical guidelines related to data research by performing literature research on this topic and writing parts in the assignments on the societal and ethical aspects of data science.

